(DOCSP-25565): Update to React Native Landing Page (#2207)
mongodb/docs-realm: source/sdk/react-native.txt

Get Started with Realm React Native
-----------------------------------

.. card-group::
   :columns: 3
   :style: extra-compact

   .. card::
      :headline: Quick Start
      :cta: See Code Examples
      :url: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/realm/sdk/react-native/quick-start-local/
      :icon: /images/icons/branding_2022/Technical_ATLAS_Functions3x.png
      :icon-alt: Functions Icon

      Minimal-explanation code examples of how to work with Realm Database.

   .. card::
      :headline: Working Example App
      :cta: Explore an Example App
      :url: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/atlas/app-services/template-apps/
      :icon: /images/icons/branding_2022/Technical_REALM_Mobile3x.png
      :icon-alt: Realm Mobile Icon

      Learn from example by dissecting a working React Native client app that 
      uses Realm Database with Device Sync.

   .. card::
      :headline: Guided Tutorial
      :cta: Follow the Tutorial
      :url: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/realm/tutorial/react-native/ 
      :icon: /images/icons/branding_2022/General_CONTENT_Tutorial3x.png
      :icon-alt: Tutorial Icon

      Follow a guided tutorial to learn how to adapt the example app to 

>       create your own working Realm app.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      create your own working app with Realm Database and Device Sync.
```

Reviewer: we don't use the term 'Realm app' anymore

.. kicker:: What You Can Do

Develop Apps with Realm Database
--------------------------------

> Use free open-source Realm Database as a local object store on a device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use open-source Realm Database as a local object store on a device.
```

Use Device Sync to keep data in sync with your MongoDB Atlas cluster and 
other clients.

.. tabs::

  .. tab:: Use Realm Database Locally
      :tabid: local-realm

      .. procedure::

         .. step:: Install the Realm React Native SDK

>             Use CocoaPods to :ref:`react-native-install` in your

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            :ref:`Install React Native <react-native-install>` in your
```

RN doesn't use Cocoapods. 'Use npm' would be more equivalent, but i don't think you need to specify this implementation detail since every JS project uses npm.

            project.

            Import Realm in your project files to get started.

         .. step:: Define an Object Schema

>             Use React Native to idiomatically :ref:`define an object schema 
>             <react-native-define-a-realm-object-schema>`. 

Reviewer: this reads weird. you're not defining the schema using anything react native-specific. 

how about instead: 

```suggestion
            Use JavaScript to :ref:`define an object schema 
            <react-native-define-a-realm-object-schema>`. 
```

         .. step:: Open a Realm

            Realm Database stores objects in Realm files on your device, 

>             or you can open an in-memory realm which does not create a file.

Reviewer: i think realm files and in-memory realms are more implementation details than we need here on the landing page

            :ref:`Configure and open a realm <react-native-open-close-realm>` 
            to get started reading and writing data.

         .. step:: Read and Write Data

            :ref:`Create <react-native-create-a-new-object>`, :ref:`read <react-native-read-operations>`, 
            :ref:`update <react-native-update-an-object>`, and :ref:`delete <react-native-delete-an-object>` 
            objects from the realm. :ref:`Filter data <react-native-filter-queries>` with React Native using

>             Realm Query Language. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            :ref:`Realm Query Language <realm-query-language>`. 
```

         .. step:: React to Changes

            Realm's live objects mean that your data is always up-to-date.
            You can :ref:`register a notification handler <react-native-react-to-changes>` 

>             to watch for changes and perform some logic, such as updating 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            to watch for changes and perform logic like updating 
```

            your UI. 

      .. image:: /images/illustrations/Mobile_hero_green.png
         :alt: Realm Mobile Illustration

  .. tab:: Sync Data Across Devices
      :tabid: device-sync

      .. procedure::

         .. step:: Connect to an Atlas App Services App

            Configure :ref:`Device Sync in an App Services App 

>             <realm-sync-get-started>`. Define data access rules. Use 
>             Development Mode to infer your schema from your data model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            <realm-sync-get-started>`. Define data access rules or use 
            Development Mode to infer a schema from your client's data model.
```

            Then, :ref:`connect to the backend <react-native-connect-to-mongodb-realm-backend-app>` 
            from your client.

         .. step:: Authenticate a User

            Use one of our authentication providers to :ref:`authenticate a 
            user <react-native-authenticate-users>`. App Services provides access
            to popular authentication providers, such as Apple, Google, or 
            Facebook. Use our built-in email/password provider to manage 
            users without a third-party, or use custom JWT authentication to 
            integrate with other authentication providers. Anonymous authentication

>             provides access without requiring a login or persisting user data.

Reviewer: i think you can slim this down. lotta info for a landing page. see the flutter page as an example - https://www.mongodb.com/docs/realm/sdk/flutter/

         .. step:: Open a Synced Realm

>             Instead of opening a local realm, :ref:`configure and open a 
>             synced Realm <react-native-open-close-realm>`. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            :ref:`Configure and open a synced Realm <react-native-open-close-realm>`. 
```

>             :ref:`Subscribe to a query <react-native-sync-subscribe-to-queryable-fields>` 
>             to determine what data the synced realm can read and write.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            To determine what data the synced realm can read and write,
            :ref:`subscribe to a query <react-native-sync-subscribe-to-queryable-fields>`.
```

nit: separating the links from being right next to each other. also, generally it's better to have link end of line so reader has full context of sentence by time to click link.

         .. step:: Read and Write Synced Data

            The APIs to read and write data from a realm are the same 
            whether you're using a synced or local realm. Data that you 
            read and write is automatically kept in sync with your Atlas 
            cluster and other clients. Apps keep working offline and 

>             deterministically sync changes whenever a network connection is 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
           sync changes whenever a network connection is 
```

            available. 

      .. image:: /images/illustrations/Spot_AzureBlue_Mobile_Tech_RealmSync.png
         :alt: Realm Sync Illustration

  .. tab:: Build with Atlas App Services
      :tabid: app-services

      .. container::

         Call Serverless Functions
         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

         You can :ref:`call serverless Functions <ios-call-a-function>` 
         from your client application that run in an App Services backend.

         .. code-block:: javascript
            :copyable: false

            const myFunctionResult = await user.functions.myServerlessFunction(arguments);

         Query MongoDB Atlas
         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

         You can :ref:`query data stored in MongoDB <react-native-query-data>`
         directly from your client application code.

         .. code-block:: javascript
            :copyable: false

            const animals = realm.objects("Animal");

>             const queryFilter = animals.filtered("name == cheetah"); 

Reviewer: this is not an example of querying mongodb atlas with React Native SDK. this is an example of querying local Realm DB.

for examples of querying MongoDB Atlas, refer to https://www.mongodb.com/docs/realm/sdk/react-native/examples/query-mongodb/

         access App Services.

         .. code-block:: javascript
            :copyable: false

            const credentials = Realm.Credentials.anonymous();
            const user = await app.logIn(credentials);

      .. image:: /images/illustrations/Spot_MauvePurple_APIs_Tech_RealmApp.png
         :alt: App Services Illustration

.. kicker:: Essential Documentation

Recommended Reading
-------------------

.. card-group::
   :columns: 3
   :style: extra-compact

   .. card::
      :headline: JavaScript API Reference
      :cta: React Native Reference
      :url: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/realm-sdks/js/latest/
      :icon: /images/icons/branding_2022/General_ACTION_BestPractices3x.png
      :icon-alt: Realm Icon

      Explore generated reference docs for the React Native APIs.

   .. card::
      :headline: React Native Quick Start with Expo
      :cta: Explore the Quick Start
      :url: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/realm/sdk/react-native/quick-start-expo/
      :icon: /images/icons/react_native_sdk.svg
      :icon-alt: React Native Icon

      Build and deploy a React Native application quickly using a

>       fully working Realm Expo template application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      fully-functional Realm Expo template application.
```

nit

      :icon-alt: Tutorial Icon

      Follow a guided tutorial to learn how to adapt the example app to 
      create your own working app with Realm database and Device Sync.

.. kicker:: What You Can Do

Develop Apps with Realm Database
--------------------------------

Use open-source Realm Database to store data on a device. Use Device 
Sync to keep data in sync with your MongoDB Atlas cluster and other 
clients.

.. tabs::

  .. tab:: Use Realm Database Locally
      :tabid: local-realm

      .. procedure::

         .. step:: Install the Realm React Native SDK

            :ref:`Install React Native <react-native-install>` in your
            project.

            Import Realm in your project files to get started.

         .. step:: Define an Object Schema

            Use JavaScript to :ref:`define an object schema 
            <react-native-define-a-realm-object-schema>`. 

         .. step:: Open a Realm

            Realm Database stores objects on your device. :ref:`Configure
            and open a realm <react-native-open-close-realm>` to get 
            started reading and writing data.

         .. step:: Read and Write Data

>             :ref:`Create <react-native-create-a-new-object>`, :ref:`read <react-native-read-operations>`, 
>             :ref:`update <react-native-update-an-object>`, and :ref:`delete <react-native-delete-an-object>` 
>             objects from the realm. :ref:`Filter data <react-native-filter-queries>` with React Native using
>             :ref:`Realm Query Language <realm-query-language>`. 

Reviewer: this is a lot of links and i think is more detail than necessary here. how bout smthn like: 

```suggestion
            You can create, read, update, and delete objects from the realm.
            
            For more information, see :ref:`Read & Write Data
            <react-native-read-and-write-data>` and :ref:`Query Data <react-native-query-data>.
```

         You can :ref:`call serverless Functions <react-native-call-a-function>` 
         from your client application that run in an App Services backend.

         .. code-block:: javascript
            :copyable: false

            const myFunctionResult = await user.functions.myServerlessFunction(arguments);

         Query MongoDB Atlas
         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

         You can :ref:`query data stored in MongoDB 
         <react-native-mongodb-remote-access>`
         directly from your client application code.

         .. code-block:: javascript
            :copyable: false

            const mongodb = app.currentUser.mongoClient("mongodb-atlas");
            const animals = mongodb.db("example").collection("animals");

            const cheetah = await animals.findOne({ name: "cheetah" });

         Authenticate Users
         ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

         Authenticate users with built-in and third-party :ref:`authentication 
         providers <react-native-authenticate-users>`. Use the authenticated user to 
         access App Services.

         .. code-block:: javascript
            :copyable: false

            const jwt = await authenticateWithExternalSystem();

>             const credentials = Realm.Credentials.jwt(jwt);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            const credentials = Realm.Credentials.jwt(jwt);
            const user = await app.logIn(credentials);
```

            
            const user = await app.logIn(credentials);

      .. image:: /images/illustrations/Spot_MauvePurple_APIs_Tech_RealmApp.png
         :alt: App Services Illustration

  .. tab:: Use Realm React 
      :tabid: realm-react

      .. container::

         Realm React is a package that provides an easy-to-use API to
         perform common Realm operations, such as querying or writing to 
         a realm and listening to realm objects. With Realm React, you can
         avoid creating your own listeners and state management. 

>          Using Providers and Hooks
>          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

>          Realm React is a package that provides an easy-to-use API to
>          perform common Realm operations, such as querying or writing to 
>          a realm and listening to realm objects. With Realm React, you can
>          avoid creating your own listeners and state management. 
> 
>          Using Providers and Hooks
>          ~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
> 
>          Provider wrappers give hooks access to components, which 
>          allow you to easily query, reference objects, and use
>          features like authentication, user credentials, and sync.
>          Hook functions, like useObject() and useQuery() can dynamically
>          manange the state of wrapped components.

Reviewer: i think as it was, it was providing too much implementation detail which wouldn't mean much to the reader who's learning from this landing page. tried to slim the content down here; 

```suggestion
         Realm React is an npm package that provides an easy-to-use API to
         perform common Realm operations in your React Native app,
         such as querying or writing to  a realm and listening to realm objects.

         Realm React includes React context, providers, hooks, for working with Realm.
         Use Realm React to manage a Realm Database, Atlas App Services,
         and Atlas Device Sync.
```

>          Learn more about :ref:`Realm React here <react-native-use-realm-react>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
         For more information, see :ref:`Realm React <react-native-use-realm-react>`.
```

      .. image:: /images/illustrations/Sports_hero_green.png
         :alt: Realm Mobile Illustration

.. kicker:: Essential Documentation

Recommended Reading
-------------------

.. card-group::

>    :columns: 3

Reviewer: can you either add a third card or make this only 2 column? 

i don't have any particular idea what the third card would be, so unless you have something, making just 2 columns is prob the easiest/best move.

   :style: extra-compact

   .. card::
      :headline: JavaScript API Reference
      :cta: React Native Reference
      :url: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/realm-sdks/js/latest/
      :icon: /images/icons/branding_2022/General_ACTION_BestPractices3x.png
      :icon-alt: Realm Icon

>       Explore generated reference docs for the React Native APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Explore generated reference docs for the React Native SDK.
```

   .. card::
      :headline: React Native Quick Start with Expo
      :cta: Explore the Quick Start
      :url: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/realm/sdk/react-native/quick-start-expo/

>       :icon: /images/icons/react_native_sdk.svg

Reviewer: can you add the icon for Expo here, not React Native? https://expo.dev/

      :icon-alt: React Native Icon

      Build and deploy a React Native application quickly using a

>       fully functional Realm Expo template application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      Expo template application with Realm.
```

>     

Reviewer: pls only 1 blank line at EOF

            Configure :ref:`Device Sync in an App Services App
            <realm-sync-get-started>`. Define data access rules or use
            Development Mode to infer a schema from your client's data model.

            Then, :ref:`connect to the backend
            <react-native-connect-to-mongodb-realm-backend-app>`
            from your client.

         .. step:: Authenticate a User

            App Services provides access to custom JWT authentication,
            our built-in email/password provider, anonymous
            authentication, and popular
            authentication providers like Apple, Google, and Facebook.

            For more information, see :ref:`Authenticate Users
            <react-native-authenticate-users>`.

         .. step:: Open a Synced Realm

            A synced realm allows you to access data across devices.
            To determine what data a synced realm can read and write,
            :ref:`subscribe to a query <react-native-sync-subscribe-to-queryable-fields>`.

            For more information, see :ref:`Open & Close a Realm
            <react-native-open-close-realm>` and :ref:`Subscribe to

>             Queryable Fields <react-native-sync-subscribe-to-queryable-fields>`.

Reviewer 2: I'll LGTM it, so I'm not holding this up - but I still have the suggestion to have that queryable fields link in the sentence itself. I think you can do something similar for the Open & Close link too. Maybe:

```
:ref:`Opening a Synced Realm <react-native-open-close-realm>` allows you to access data across devices. To determine what data a synced realm can read and write, :ref:`subscribe to a query <react-native-sync-subscribe-to-queryable-fields>`.
```

To clarify, you don't have to make the ref inline for the sake of being inline, I just think it looks better to have the ref inline if you're using the title phrase verbatim/almost verbatim (like in the case of "To determine what data a synced realm can read and write, subscribe to a query. For more information, see ... Queryable Fields."

            Development Mode to infer a schema from your client's data model.

            Then, :ref:`connect to the backend
            <react-native-connect-to-mongodb-realm-backend-app>`
            from your client.

         .. step:: Authenticate a User

            App Services provides access to custom JWT authentication,
            our built-in email/password provider, anonymous
            authentication, and popular
            authentication providers like Apple, Google, and Facebook.

            For more information, see :ref:`Authenticate Users
            <react-native-authenticate-users>`.

         .. step:: Open a Synced Realm

            A synced realm allows you to access data across devices.
            Subscribe to a query to determine what data a
            synced realm can read and write. :ref:`subscribe to a query
            <react-native-sync-subscribe-to-queryable-fields>`.

            For more information, see :ref:`Open & Close a Realm
            <react-native-open-close-realm>` and :ref:`Subscribe to
            Queryable Fields <react-native-sync-subscribe-to-queryable-fields>`.

         .. step:: Read and Write Synced Data

>             The APIs to read and write data from a realm are the same

Reviewer: yes, but `APIs` is plural.

         objects. Realm React includes React context, providers, and hooks
         for working with Realm.

         Use Realm React to manage a Realm  Database, Atlas App Services,
         and Atlas Device Sync.

         For more information, see :ref:`Realm React
         <react-native-use-realm-react>`.

      .. image:: /images/illustrations/Spot_MauvePurple_Logic_Tech_RealmApp2x.png
         :alt: Realm Mobile Illustration

.. kicker:: Essential Documentation

Recommended Reading
-------------------

.. card-group::
   :columns: 2
   :style: extra-compact

   .. card::
      :headline: JavaScript API Reference
      :cta: React Native Reference
      :url: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/realm-sdks/js/latest/
      :icon: /images/icons/branding_2022/General_ACTION_BestPractices3x.png
      :icon-alt: Realm Icon

      Explore generated reference docs for the React Native SDK.

   .. card::
      :headline: React Native Quick Start with Expo
      :cta: Explore the Quick Start
      :url: https://www.mongodb.com/docs/realm/sdk/react-native/quick-start-expo/
      :icon: /images/icons/expo_logo.svg
      :icon-alt: Expo Icon

>       Build and deploy a React Native application quickly using a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      Build and deploy a React Native application quickly using an
```
Typo

>       Expo template application with Realm.

Reviewer 2: Can we also mention that the Expo QuickStart uses Realm React?
